.TH TGLFS 1 "March 2026" "tglfs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tglfs \- authenticate with Telegram, manage TGLFS file cards, transfer files, and download TGLFS files by UFID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tglfs
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tglfs
is a global command-line client for authenticating with Telegram, uploading files, managing TGLFS file cards, transferring files between peers, searching mailboxes, and downloading current-format or legacy TGLFS files by UFID.
.PP
Run
.B tglfs help <command>
for subcommand-specific help.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B upload <paths...>
Upload one file, or archive multiple files, into Saved Messages.
.TP
.B login
Authenticate with Telegram and persist the resulting session.
.TP
.B status
Show current config and Telegram authorization state.
.TP
.B logout
Remove the saved Telegram session.
.TP
.B search [query]
Search TGLFS file cards in Saved Messages or another peer mailbox.
.TP
.B download <ufid>
Download a current-format or legacy TGLFS file by UFID.
.TP
.B rename <ufid> <new-name>
Rename an owned TGLFS file card.
.TP
.B delete <ufid...>
Delete one or more owned TGLFS files.
.TP
.B send <ufid...> --to <peer>
Send one or more owned TGLFS files to another peer.
.TP
.B receive <source> <ufid...>
Receive one or more TGLFS files from another peer into Saved Messages.
.TP
.B unsend <source> <ufid...>
Delete one or more received TGLFS files from another peer mailbox.
.TP
.B inspect <ufid>
Inspect file-card metadata and chunk references; use
.B --probe
for a full current-vs-legacy integrity check.
.TP
.B help [command]
Display help for a command.
.SH FILES
The CLI stores config and session files in OS-standard per-user app directories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tglfs-login (1),
.BR tglfs-status (1),
.BR tglfs-logout (1),
.BR tglfs-upload (1),
.BR tglfs-search (1),
.BR tglfs-download (1),
.BR tglfs-rename (1),
.BR tglfs-delete (1),
.BR tglfs-send (1),
.BR tglfs-receive (1),
.BR tglfs-unsend (1),
.BR tglfs-inspect (1)
